README.md, before:

# Changelog CI


## What is Changelog CI?

Changelog CI is a GitHub Action that generates changelog,
prepends it to ``CHANGELOG.md`` file and commits it to a release pull request


## How Does It Work:

Changelog CI uses ``python`` and ``GitHub API`` to generate changelog for a repository.
First, it tries to get the ``latest release`` from the repository (If available).
Then, it checks all the pull requests merged after the last release using the GitHub API.
After that it parses the data and generates the ``changelog``. Finally,
It writes the generated changelog at the beginning of the ``CHANGELOG.md`` (or user provided filename) file.
In addition to that, if an user provides a config (json file), Changelog CI parses the user provided config file
and renders the changelog according to users config. Then the changes are committed to the release Pull request.


## Usage:

To use this Action The pull **request title** must match with the default ``regex``
or the user provided ``regex`` from the config file.

**Default title regex:** ``^(?i)release`` (title must start with the word "release" (case insensitive))

**Default version number regex:** This follows [``SemVer``](https://regex101.com/r/Ly7O1x/3/) (Semantic Versioning) pattern.
e.g. ``1.0.0``, ``1.0``, ``v1.0.1`` etc.

**For more details on Semantic Versioning pattern go to this link:** https://regex101.com/r/Ly7O1x/3/

**Note:** [you can provide your own ``regex`` through the ``config`` file](#config-file-usage-optional)

To integrate ``Changelog CI`` with your repositories Actions,
Put this step inside your ``.github/workflows/workflow.yml`` file:

```yaml
- name: Run Changelog CI
    uses: saadmk11/changelog-ci@v0.5.5
    with:
      # optional, you can provide any name for your changelog file,
      # defaults to ``CHANGELOG.md`` if not provided.
      changelog_filename: MY_CHANGELOG.md
      # optional, only required when you want to
      # group your changelog by labels and titles
      config_file: changelog-ci-config.json
    env:
      # This will be used to configure git
      # you can use secrets for it as well
      USERNAME:  'test'
      EMAIL:  'test@test.com'
      # optional, only required for ``private`` repositories
      GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN}}
```


## Config File Usage (Optional):

Changelog CI config file is a ``JSON`` file that you can provide to you workflow like this:

```yaml
with:
  config_file: changelog-ci-config.json
```

The config file will give you more flexibility and customization options.

### Configuration Options:

* **header_prefix:** The prefix before the version number. e.g. ``Version: 1.0.2``
* **pull_request_title_regex:** If the pull request title matches with this ``regex`` Changelog CI will generate changelog for it.
Otherwise it will skip changelog generation.
* **version_regex:** This ``regex`` tries to find the version number from pull request title.
if not provided defaults to [``SemVer``](https://regex101.com/r/Ly7O1x/3/) pattern.
* **group_config:** By adding this you can group changelog items by your repository labels with custom titles.
```
{
  // Custom title for groups
  "title": "Bug Fixes",
  // pull request labels that will match this group
  "labels": ["bug", "bugfix"]
}
```
[See this example](#example-changelog-output-using-config-file)

#### Example Config File:

```json
{
  "header_prefix": "Version:",
  "pull_request_title_regex": "^Release",
  "version_regex": "v?([0-9]{1,2})+[.]+([0-9]{1,2})+[.]+([0-9]{1,2})\\s\\(\\d{1,2}-\\d{1,2}-\\d{4}\\)",
  "group_config": [
    {
      "title": "Bug Fixes",
      "labels": ["bug", "bugfix"]
    },
    {
      "title": "Code Improvements",
      "labels": ["improvements", "enhancement"]
    },
    {
      "title": "New Features",
      "labels": ["feature"]
    },
    {
      "title": "Documentation Updates",
      "labels": ["docs", "documentation", "doc"]
    }
  ]
}
```

In this Example **``version_regex``** matches any version number including date. e.g: **``v1.1.0 (01-23-2018)``**
If you don't provide any ``regex`` Changelog CI will use default 
[``SemVer``](https://regex101.com/r/Ly7O1x/3/) pattern. e.g. **``1.0.1``**, **``v1.0.2``**.

Here **``pull_request_title_regex``** will match any pull request that starts with **``Release``**
you can match **Any Pull Request Title** by adding this **``pull_request_title_regex": ".*"``**,

**[Click here to see the example output using this config](#example-changelog-output-using-config-file)**


## Example Workflow

```yaml
name: Changelog CI

# Controls when the action will run. Triggers the workflow on pull request
on:
  pull_request:
    types: [opened, reopened]

jobs:
  build:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    steps:
      # Checks-out your repository
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2

      - name: Run Changelog CI
        uses: saadmk11/changelog-ci@v0.5.5
        with:
          changelog_filename: CHANGELOG.md
          config_file: changelog-ci-config.json
        env:
          USERNAME:  ${{secrets.USERNAME}}
          EMAIL:  ${{secrets.EMAIL}}
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN}}
```


# Example Changelog Output using config file:

Version: v2.1.0 (02-25-2020)
============================

#### Bug Fixes

* [#53](https://github.com/test/test/pull/57): Keep updating the readme
* [#54](https://github.com/test/test/pull/56): Again updating the Same Readme file

#### New Features

* [#68](https://github.com/test/test/pull/68): Update README.md

#### Documentation Updates

* [#66](https://github.com/test/test/pull/66): Docs update


Version: v1.1.0 (01-01-2020)
============================

#### Bug Fixes

* [#53](https://github.com/test/test/pull/57): Keep updating the readme
* [#54](https://github.com/test/test/pull/56): Again updating the Same Readme file

#### Documentation Updates

* [#66](https://github.com/test/test/pull/66): Docs update


# Example Changelog Output without using config file:

Version: 0.0.2
==============

* [#53](https://github.com/test/test/pull/57): Keep updating the readme
* [#54](https://github.com/test/test/pull/56): Again updating the Same Readme file
* [#55](https://github.com/test/test/pull/55): README update


Version: 0.0.1
==============

* [#43](https://github.com/test/test/pull/43): It feels like testing never ends
* [#35](https://github.com/test/test/pull/35): Testing again and again
* [#44](https://github.com/test/test/pull/44): This is again another test, getting tired
* [#37](https://github.com/test/test/pull/37): This is again another test


# License

The code in this project is released under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Make Username and Email input optional and default to github-actions[bot]

README.md, after:

# Changelog CI


## What is Changelog CI?

Changelog CI is a GitHub Action that generates changelog,
prepends it to ``CHANGELOG.md`` file and commits it to a release pull request


## How Does It Work:

Changelog CI uses ``python`` and ``GitHub API`` to generate changelog for a repository.
First, it tries to get the ``latest release`` from the repository (If available).
Then, it checks all the pull requests merged after the last release using the GitHub API.
After that it parses the data and generates the ``changelog``. Finally,
It writes the generated changelog at the beginning of the ``CHANGELOG.md`` (or user provided filename) file.
In addition to that, if an user provides a config (json file), Changelog CI parses the user provided config file
and renders the changelog according to users config. Then the changes are committed to the release Pull request.


## Usage:

To use this Action The pull **request title** must match with the default ``regex``
or the user provided ``regex`` from the config file.

**Default title regex:** ``^(?i)release`` (title must start with the word "release" (case insensitive))

**Default version number regex:** This follows [``SemVer``](https://regex101.com/r/Ly7O1x/3/) (Semantic Versioning) pattern.
e.g. ``1.0.0``, ``1.0``, ``v1.0.1`` etc.

**For more details on Semantic Versioning pattern go to this link:** https://regex101.com/r/Ly7O1x/3/

**Note:** [you can provide your own ``regex`` through the ``config`` file](#config-file-usage-optional)

To integrate ``Changelog CI`` with your repositories Actions,
Put this step inside your ``.github/workflows/workflow.yml`` file:

```yaml
- name: Run Changelog CI
    uses: saadmk11/changelog-ci@v0.5.5
    with:
      # Optional, you can provide any name for your changelog file,
      # defaults to ``CHANGELOG.md`` if not provided.
      changelog_filename: MY_CHANGELOG.md
      # Optional, only required when you want to
      # group your changelog by labels and titles
      config_file: changelog-ci-config.json
      # Optional, This will be used to configure git
      # defaults to ``github-actions[bot]`` if not provided.
      comitter_username:  'test'
      comitter_email:  'test@test.com'
    env:
      # optional, only required for ``private`` repositories
      GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN}}
```


## Config File Usage (Optional):

Changelog CI config file is a ``JSON`` file that you can provide to you workflow like this:

```yaml
with:
  config_file: changelog-ci-config.json
```

The config file will give you more flexibility and customization options.

### Configuration Options:

* **header_prefix:** The prefix before the version number. e.g. ``Version: 1.0.2``
* **pull_request_title_regex:** If the pull request title matches with this ``regex`` Changelog CI will generate changelog for it.
Otherwise it will skip changelog generation.
* **version_regex:** This ``regex`` tries to find the version number from pull request title.
if not provided defaults to [``SemVer``](https://regex101.com/r/Ly7O1x/3/) pattern.
* **group_config:** By adding this you can group changelog items by your repository labels with custom titles.
```
{
  // Custom title for groups
  "title": "Bug Fixes",
  // pull request labels that will match this group
  "labels": ["bug", "bugfix"]
}
```
[See this example](#example-changelog-output-using-config-file)

#### Example Config File:

```json
{
  "header_prefix": "Version:",
  "pull_request_title_regex": "^Release",
  "version_regex": "v?([0-9]{1,2})+[.]+([0-9]{1,2})+[.]+([0-9]{1,2})\\s\\(\\d{1,2}-\\d{1,2}-\\d{4}\\)",
  "group_config": [
    {
      "title": "Bug Fixes",
      "labels": ["bug", "bugfix"]
    },
    {
      "title": "Code Improvements",
      "labels": ["improvements", "enhancement"]
    },
    {
      "title": "New Features",
      "labels": ["feature"]
    },
    {
      "title": "Documentation Updates",
      "labels": ["docs", "documentation", "doc"]
    }
  ]
}
```

In this Example **``version_regex``** matches any version number including date. e.g: **``v1.1.0 (01-23-2018)``**
If you don't provide any ``regex`` Changelog CI will use default 
[``SemVer``](https://regex101.com/r/Ly7O1x/3/) pattern. e.g. **``1.0.1``**, **``v1.0.2``**.

Here **``pull_request_title_regex``** will match any pull request that starts with **``Release``**
you can match **Any Pull Request Title** by adding this **``pull_request_title_regex": ".*"``**,

**[Click here to see the example output using this config](#example-changelog-output-using-config-file)**


## Example Workflow

```yaml
name: Changelog CI

# Controls when the action will run. Triggers the workflow on pull request
on:
  pull_request:
    types: [opened, reopened]

jobs:
  build:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    steps:
      # Checks-out your repository
      - uses: actions/checkout@v2

      - name: Run Changelog CI
        uses: saadmk11/changelog-ci@v0.5.5
        with:
          changelog_filename: CHANGELOG.md
          config_file: changelog-ci-config.json
        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN}}
```


# Example Changelog Output using config file:

Version: v2.1.0 (02-25-2020)
============================

#### Bug Fixes

* [#53](https://github.com/test/test/pull/57): Keep updating the readme
* [#54](https://github.com/test/test/pull/56): Again updating the Same Readme file

#### New Features

* [#68](https://github.com/test/test/pull/68): Update README.md

#### Documentation Updates

* [#66](https://github.com/test/test/pull/66): Docs update


Version: v1.1.0 (01-01-2020)
============================

#### Bug Fixes

* [#53](https://github.com/test/test/pull/57): Keep updating the readme
* [#54](https://github.com/test/test/pull/56): Again updating the Same Readme file

#### Documentation Updates

* [#66](https://github.com/test/test/pull/66): Docs update


# Example Changelog Output without using config file:

Version: 0.0.2
==============

* [#53](https://github.com/test/test/pull/57): Keep updating the readme
* [#54](https://github.com/test/test/pull/56): Again updating the Same Readme file
* [#55](https://github.com/test/test/pull/55): README update


Version: 0.0.1
==============

* [#43](https://github.com/test/test/pull/43): It feels like testing never ends
* [#35](https://github.com/test/test/pull/35): Testing again and again
* [#44](https://github.com/test/test/pull/44): This is again another test, getting tired
* [#37](https://github.com/test/test/pull/37): This is again another test


# License

The code in this project is released under the [MIT License](LICENSE).
